what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another video on the
yukon exam so last week on my Instagram
page karma medic I asked you guys have
had any questions about the yukon exam
because I'm getting a lot a lot of love
Instagram the ends and messages and
comments on YouTube asked me different
kinds of things about the you cat exam
so I thought I would do a frequently
asked questions video and address the
most important questions once they get
asked all the time so I actually got
quite a few responses so thank you guys
for sending those in if you did and I'm
gonna go through a couple of them now
and let you know my best answer is
probably one of the questions that I get
on Instagram the most is can I have your
UConn notes and yes yes you can't have
my UConn notes just send me a DM on
Instagram and I'll send you the link to
them through the phone just try not to
send me an email because I check those
way less often and I'm less likely to
get back to you on time so the second
most common question that I get asked is
something along the lines of how long
did you study for the UConn exam how
long should I study for the UK exam or
is four weeks enough to do well is five
weeks enough to do well something like
that
and so what I always say for this type
of question is that when I studied for
the exam
I was personally under a lot of time
pressure because I was also studying for
the Canadian medical school entrance
exam and I was also applying to medical
schools in both the UK and Canada and so
I only had a four week period to study
for the UConn exam I managed to study
for it and do quite well within four
weeks so it definitely is possible but I
would also recommend that you study for
longer than that if you can you don't
want to start studying too early because
then you might get burnt out over time
you want to study sort of somewhere
around the 6-week range if I have to
guess a general number to say to
everyone around six weeks should be good
but also you know yourselves best if you
think that you need more time to study
then just give yourself more time to
study if you know that you can cram all
the content for this exam in a couple of
weeks and that's your preferred style
then go with that style so at the end of
the day you guys will know yourselves
best but it's always better to give
yourself more time to study and be safe
rather than give yourself just a week or
two and then be sorry so in addition to
all the questions that I get in my
Instagram dm's about the UK exam I also
get a bunch of questions about the
medical school admissions process and
how to write the personal statement ask
me for tips and tricks and things like
that and so in very exciting news next
week
on July 18th from 5:30 to 8:00 British
Standard Time Kaplan test prep have
sponsored me to talk at one of their
live online webinars this is going to be
a session talking about the medical
school admissions process and also about
the personal statement it'll be a really
fun event and you'll also have the
chance to chat with me directly in the
questions and answers period so I'm
really excited about this and I hope you
are too if you guys are interested at
all and improving your medical school
application I'm gonna leave links in the
description down below where you guys
can go sign up to the live online
webinar it's totally free it doesn't
cost anything and I will see you guys
there okay so another quite common
question that I get is how to do well on
the abstract reasoning section or how to
improve my score on the abstract
reasoning section and for abstract
reasoning because it's a type of
question or a type of test that you will
likely have never seen before it's not
similar to any kind of test that you
will have done in high school it's
mostly the need to get exposed to
different kinds of shapes different
kinds of patterns different kinds of
tricks that you will see on the yukon
exam and being exposed to as many
different questions as possible is
what's going to help you improve on the
upcoming questions in the future when
you see me a hundred and first question
the pattern that you're gonna see is
likely going to be somewhat similar to a
pattern that you've already seen before
that allows you to quickly identify the
pattern instead of spending time trying
to figure it out for verbal reasoning I
always get asked whether you should be
reading the paragraph first or the
question first and again this can come
down to personal preference but I think
that the most time-efficient technique
is to read the question first and focus
on the key words in the question and
then go back to the paragraph and search
for the key words from the question in
the paragraph and when you guys are
doing that usually when you find those
key words the answer will be somewhere
one sentence above and one sentence
below of where you find it but for some
questions they do try and trick you or
they do make it more difficult so you
might want to have a scan of the other
paragraphs to see if you can find those
key words somewhere else too
okay one of the most common questions
that I get asked that I have absolutely
no answer for this is probably one in
every four questions I get asked about
that you can't exam and that is once
score is good enough to get me accepted
to X University or what score do I need
in order to get accepted to medical
school etc etc these are questions that
I simply can't answer medical schools
are changing their cut-offs for the
different sections or their cut-offs for
the overall you can't score each and
every
a year what is considered a competitive
score in one year might be higher or
lower than what is considered a
competitive score in the next year but
the best thing that you can do to figure
out sort of your target score the score
that you're aiming for is to go to the
University websites that you want to
apply to and they will usually say what
the average scores were of the students
that they accepted into their medical
schools in previous years do
international students need to take the
UK exam yes if you are an international
student applying to medical schools in
the UK you do need to take the UK exam
it's a standardized exam that all
students have to take when they apply to
medical school ok another good question
that I get is talking about sort of how
do you study for the yukon exam how do
you start studying for the UK exam and
is there a progression as you move
through time when studying for the UK
exam so this is what I like to say for
that question basically when you start
you likely won't have done these types
of questions before especially for
abstract reasoning on situational
judgment so the first thing that you
have to do when preparing for the UK
exam is to understand the theory that
underlies each of the different sections
understand how the questions are made
what their goal is and the different
ways and strategies that you can use to
answer them once you feel like you've
understood the theory well enough you
want to move on to doing practice
questions and this is where the bulk of
your practice the bulk of your studying
is going to happen you just want to do
question after question after question
for each and every single section until
you feel confident in that section so
for example an abstract reasoning you'll
start to identify a list of ten
different rules that just seem to come
up more often than other types of rules
for quantitative reasoning you'll start
to realize that fractions percentages
ratios is something that's very
important for decision making you'll
start to realize that Venn diagrams are
very important and then for situational
judgment you'll also start to accumulate
a list of different things that seem to
come up over and over again and then
once you've done many many practice
questions and you feel confident to
tackle a real test this is also a very
very important step so past tests are
absolutely very very very important
because that's where you're gonna learn
the timing of the UK exam when you do
your first monkey you're probably not
going to do that well in fact I get many
many messages that say hey Nasser like I
just did my first mock and I did very
poorly I'm feeling very motivated
feeling very upset what should I do and
the answer is that that's totally normal
and that's because you haven't gotten
used to the timing structure of the you
can't and you basically figure out the
pace and the speed at which you need to
go out in order to complete all the
questions for that section so that's
sort of the progression that I would
recommend when studying for the yukata
exam sort of related to one of the first
questions that I asked was how many
hours did you study a day and again this
is very personalized to the person who's
writing the test at the time when I
wrote it I could only dedicate about two
to three hours a day to study for the
test which I think he should do more if
you have the time but again it depends
how long you're studying for it depends
on you how easily you get burnt out
during the day how long you can have
your study sessions for etc so make sure
you find something that works for you
that you can do for a period of time so
another question that I get asked quite
frequently is when should I book my ucae
exam for you guys can book here you
can't exam for whenever you want it
really doesn't matter if it's early
summer or late summer or mid summer just
make sure that you give yourself enough
time before your you can't test date in
order to study for the exam you don't
want to book it too early and then not
have enough time to study so a very very
common question that I get asked is how
do I manage my time during the UK exam
and specifically the questions are
usually related to the quantitative
reasoning section time management in the
UK exam is something that's very very
important and in fact I think I'm gonna
make an entire video just dedicated to
this subject because there really is a
lot to say but very quickly for time
management you have to actually do a
mock test in order to realize how short
the time periods are for each of the
different sections next time you do
practice questions next time you do a
test you're gonna be trying to work much
much much faster in order to arrive at
your answer in order to be able to
complete more questions in the time
period so the time management is really
something that you have to learn through
experience of doing past tests that are
time doing a mock test under time
conditions and it's something that you
sort of gain the ability to do over time
it's not something you learn overnight
and that's why I really really recommend
doing lots of pass tests as many mock
tests as you possibly can in order to be
able to get that experience that you
naturally have a feeling for what's
taking too long or if you're good for a
time of course also you can use the
clock that's in the top left or I forget
where it is but there's a clock on the
screen somewhere when you're writing
your you can't test and of course you
can use that clock to see how you are
doing for that section
and on how many minutes you have left
how many questions you've already gone
through et cetera but you want to reach
the point in your practice where you
feel confident in the pace that you have
so that you're not wasting too much time
looking at the clock and getting anxiety
about that etc anyways like I said I
will make a full video on this so stay
tuned and subscribe to the channel
another very very important topic which
I will again cover in my video on time
management in the UK exam is learning to
triage questions and if you don't know
what that means that basically means
learning to choose which questions you
want to guess move on from and then come
back to if you have enough time and
learning to see which questions you
should tackle right then and there so in
the yukon exam each question is worth
one mark no question is worth more than
another one and so you want to do all
the easy questions that you can get for
sure and accumulate that one mark as
opposed to questions that might take you
a very very long time that you're not
gonna have enough time to do or that are
very difficult and you know that you're
less likely to get correct so for
example in qumar this happens to me all
the time
I will look at a question and
immediately I'll be able to identify
that this is gonna be at least a five
step question maybe even a six step
question as in I'm gonna have to type in
six different equations or calculations
into my calculator and of course that's
gonna take a very very long time and if
I realize that it's gonna take a very
long time then that's a question that I
want to guess I want to skip and I will
come back to later to try and see if I
can answer it properly okay and then one
last question that I'm gonna do here is
your one ultimate tip for the you can't
so my one tip for the yukon exam would
be to get in as much practice as
possible this is very much an exam that
you can improve on through practice
through getting more and more exposure
to different types of questions and
within each section you will start to
realize and you will start to accumulate
a list of things that seem to come up
more and more often and those are the
things that you want to focus on and
make sure that you know very very well
because when it comes time to write the
exam you wanna be able to fly through
those questions just with exposure and
with doing many different questions
you're going to be able to link the
question that is right in front of you
to something that you've done in the
past and that's gonna help you very much
in tackling the exam and doing well
alright guys and I think that's all the
questions that I have for today about
the you-cut exam hopefully I've answered
a bunch of questions that you guys will
find useful hope you guys are having a
good time for praying for you
I hope you do really really well let me
know in the comments down below how your
practice is going how everything is
going and of course if you have any
questions that I haven't answered as
well if you guys like this video do
leave a like on it and of course
subscribe to my channel if you want to
see more medical school related content
from me in the future if you guys want
to follow me on Instagram feel free our
karma medic anyways that is it for me
now and I will see you in the next one
peace